As an arbiter of the law,
withhold knowledge of historical
jurisprudence in this country, race
must always be considered a variable.
You have precious time misleading.
I suggest that you don't waste it
by making arguments you've already made.
These are not my words,
Justice Strickland.
They use.
You wrote them in your
1985 ruling in Bryant v.
Topeka, an equal protection case dealing
with a state housing lottery program.
Racism is built into the DNA of America.
And as long as we turn a blind eye
to the pain of those suffering under its
oppression, we will never
escape those origins.
The only safeguard people of color have is
the right to a defense,
and we won't even give them that,
which means that the promise of civil
rights has never been fulfilled.
Due to the failure of our justice system,
our public defense system in particular,
Jim Crow is alive and kicking.
Laws that made it illegal for blacks
and whites to be buried in the same
cemetery,
they categorize people into quadroons
and octoroon as they punish a black person
for seeking medical attention
in a white hospital.
Some may claim that slavery has ended,
but tell that to the inmates who are kept
in cages and told that they
don't have any rights at all.
People like my client, Nathaniel Leahy,
and millions of people like him who are
relegated to a subclass of human
existence in our prisons.
There was no alternative to justice
in this case, there was no other option.
To decide against my plaintiff
is to choose of lining the pockets
of prison owners over providing basic
defense for the people who live in them.
And is that the America that this
court really wants to live in
and money is more important than humanity
or criminality is confused
with mental health?
The Sixth Amendment was ratified in 1791.
It's been two hundred and twenty
six years since then.
Let's finally guarantee its
rights to all of our citizens.